[woman breathing heavily]
[intriguing music playing]
INSPIRED BY A TRUE STORY
[man] The laws of physics
nail the human race to the ground.
Today. though.
you will be witnessing a miracle!
A fine young woman. otherworldly.
will rise up. dancing in the air.
Because nature
bestowed a rare gift upon her.
Miranda. sovereign of the air.
tonight we ask of you. fly high.
- [drumroll]
- Hup!
Above us all!
- [Miranda] Hup.
- [male trapezist grunts]
[suspenseful music playing]
[both] Hep.
[audience cheering and applauding]
[Miranda] Tell Paride to remove the nets.
- Nets!
- [exhales deeply]
["The Beginning of the End"
by Klergy & Valerie Broussard playing]
♪ Reckless behaviour… ♪
Attention now. ladies and gentlemen.
Miranda has just given me notice
of something extraordinary.
Just for you. just for tonight.
she will fly for the very first time
without a net.
[audience murmuring]
♪ When you close your eyes ♪
♪ What were we thinking? ♪
♪ Back at the beginning
The beginning of the end? ♪
♪ The end ♪
[breathes deeply]
Hup!
[music builds]
[song intensifies]
♪ Oh. oh ♪
[song stops]
[dramatic sting]
♪ The end ♪
[audience screaming]
[dramatic note plays]
[theme music playing]
THE LAW ACCORDING TO LIDIA POËT
[music fades]
[birds chirping]
Men often talk about women
as if they were essentially fragile.
They deny their capacity for science.
their intellect.
socially. politically. their strength.
and. forgive me.
but it is not me who says so.
They themselves acknowledge it.
with their legislation.
But if they really believed
what they said.
they wouldn't feel so threatened
by us women. right?
If we really were fragile and inadequate.
then there would be no need to keep us
under constant forced protection.
- Yes?
- Dr Poët. allow me. please.
- What you say is wonderful.
- But?
But. indeed. I think your example suggests
that in order for one
to exercise her liberty continuously.
a woman needs
to have a… gentleman's protection.
like you need your brother. Deputy Poët.
I am very grateful to my brother
for everything he's done for me.
But the truth is something else.
Namely. that if I'm here in this room
with you all today.
and a law that I wrote is in Parliament
ready to be discussed and voted.
it is mainly thanks to one woman.
[whimsical music playing]
When I met her.
she was working in a tobacco factory.
And I had just run away
from my father's house.
I was alone.
and I was completely unprepared for life.
I even lacked money for food.
And the first time she spoke to me.
she said.
"You've never worked a day in your life.
have you?"
She offered me a place to stay.
and she even helped me pay for university
without asking for anything
but a friend to stand by her side.
[woman] Pardon me. sir.
[sighs] Were you not told
the carriages with oil lanterns
have been temporarily prohibited?
You see. just there. look.
There was an accident
at the corner of Via Po.
I'd never forgive myself
if yours was taken.
- Appreciate it. Thank you so much!
- Miss! Miss! Miss!
[Lidia] So…
it is true.
maybe the time has not yet arrived
for a woman to be able
to do without those men
who hold the ability for change
in their hands.
But just take a look at the woman
who sits next to you
and join her in the same battle
so that the voice of one
becomes the voice of all.
And. above all.
so that it reaches the ears
of those who do not want to listen.
- So… [chuckles]
- [all applauding]
[uplifting music playing]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
[birds chirping]
Well… have you been waiting long?
Only nine years.
[both chuckling]
You're…
- A bit older?
- [woman] Beautiful.
[both chuckle fondly]
[gentle music playing]
[inhales] I missed you.
[woman] Me too.
[music crescendos. fades abruptly]
Can we talk seriously?
When will you introduce me?
[Lidia chuckles]
- Who?
- Don't be coy. The prosecutor.
Shh.
- It's nothing official.
- It's not?
No. we can't talk about it.
- [man] Stop right there!
- Does he know you'll break his heart?
I actually like him a lot.
- Mummy?
- [man] Stop! Carabinieri!
Thank you. Mila. they're great!
- [Lidia cries out]
- Careful. Lidia!
You filthy pig! Leave me alone!
[tense music playing]
- [carabiniere grunts]
- [groans]
No. stop. Come back!
[cuffs clicking]
Do you realise that's an abuse of power?
Step aside. ma'am.
This woman killed a girl.
- That is no excuse for smashing her face.
- I didn't do anything.
[carabiniere] Move!
Walk.
[dramatic music playing]
Ask for Enrico Poët. He's a lawyer.
- Right. Now she wants a lawyer.
- Enrico Poët. He sits in Parliament!
- Lidia. your dress has been torn.
- That's the least of my worries.
No. it's really badly torn.
Oh. fuck. Oh…
Sorry. dear.
You must never use words like that. Never.
Come on. nothing to see here. Move along.
- They do make my blood boil.
- I know.
Do you know how many times
they arrest people
without a single shred of evidence?
There. done.
- [Lidia] Thank you.
- Perfect.
So you'll stay here with us tonight.
No. our things are at the guesthouse.
We couldn't possibly stay.
I'll lend you something.
We have a house with 16 rooms available.
Let's use them.
- Shouldn't we first inform Enrico?
- [Lidia] No.
Sure about that?
He'll be back tomorrow with Teresa.
- And we haven't toasted yet.
- Can I drink it too?
Uh. Mila. perhaps you could
in the next ten years.
Why don't you take a look
around the house?
So you can see
how these electorates reside.
Deputies are boring.
- Well…
- Yes. that's true.
But I remember their daughters.
They all have dolls to play with.
And if you go to my niece's room.
they're all still there.
She lives in Paris now.
so we won't tell her you found them.
Down the long corridor.
[footsteps departing]
[inhales] To us. my friend.
I need to confess something.
[pensive music playing]
I actually came here
to visit you for a reason.
Unfortunately. I'm in need of a loan.
All right.
No. it's a substantial amount of money.
I've accumulated some debts that
my husband knows nothing about. and…
How much?
- 2.000 lire.
- [Lidia exhales]
I know.
I'll pay it all back. rest assured.
That's not the problem. Grazia.
I just don't have it.
I don't.
- Enrico can't help us?
- [Lidia] Enrico…
I can try and talk to him. but…
We'll figure something out.
Don't worry.
Tell me. how did you ever… how did you…
- [Mila] Can I play with this?
- [gasps]
Oh. sure.
But first. you have to come with me.
I want to show you something.
Because you'll find out
that your mother… is a fabulous dancer.
No.
- [Lidia] And now we'll show you.
- [Grazia] No.
Oh. yes.
- And you can't turn us down.
- [Grazia] No. Lidia. please.
- [Grazia] Oh gosh… [chuckles]
- [roller organ playing]
All right. Just like this.
One hand here. the other one here.
And spin. spin. spin. spin.
faster. faster. faster. faster. faster…
[Grazia] All right.
I'll take the lead. if you'll allow?
[roller organ playing waltz]
[all laughing]
- Oh my. you're so graceful.
- [Grazia] No. I…
[Lidia] Spectacular!
- Oh no. no. no. no! I can't!
- [Lidia squeals]
[both laughing and screaming]
Wait. wait! My…
I believe my skirt ripped again!
- Oh.
- That's enough for today.
- [Lidia ] No. Mila. shall we keep going?
- No. I'm done now.
- [Lidia] Yes! She said yes.
- Oh gosh!
She said yes. Faster. faster!
Help!
[both laughing and squealing]
[door opens]
[music distorts. stops]
[Lidia] Enrico.
Teresa. Weren't you supposed
to come back tomorrow?
May I ask you
why you're in your underwear. Lidia?
- [Grazia laughing quietly]
- Oh. well…
[Teresa] Don't get us wrong. Lidia.
We are very happy
that you found this friend of yours again.
But since she's sleeping at our house.
we would just like to know who she is.
Enrico is now in Parliament.
and he can't have random people
in the house.
Actually. Enrico knows perfectly well
who she is.
- He's pretending not to remember.
- I've never seen her in my life.
If it wasn't for her. I would never have
finished university. You know it.
So you are in debt to her?
[sombre music playing]
[winces]
- No.
- [Teresa] Hm.
[inhales] Anyway. Enrico.
I need an advance on my next pay cheques.
All right.
- About 2.000 lire.
- [Enrico coughs]
Lidia. do you really know
what the house costs are?
[scoffs]
Maybe not.
as you don't contribute to them.
[Teresa] What Enrico means is that
being a deputy costs a lot of money.
and it certainly wasn't his ambition.
[Enrico] Can I at least ask you
what you need it for?
[cutlery clattering softly]
So that's… no.
- [Lidia] I was simply asking a question.
- [Enrico] I gave an answer.
Don't think I'm not helping
cover the expenses of this house.
Next time you need
a closing statement reviewed.
you should ask someone else.
- [Grazia] Good morning.
- Good morning.
[Teresa] Good morning.
Mila. sweetheart.
That doll is very fragile.
- Oh. sorry. it's…
- Don't worry.
- If you give it to me. I'll put it away.
- Please. have a seat.
Thank you.
[Enrico] Help yourselves.
There's a bit of everything.
Tea with milk. croissant. chocolat chaud.
- [chuckles]
- [bell dings]
[Enrico] No. no. no. please.
Let me. Albertina. Excusez-moi.
De rien.
[Lidia and Grazia laughing]
- [Lidia] Did you sleep well?
- I did.
- Did you… talk to him?
- Yes.
- It's a bit of a complicated time.
- [Grazia] Mm.
Maybe if you could wait
a couple more days…
[tense music playing]
You can't? You're not able to?
No. I told my husband we'd be back today.
so it's imperative that we…
[Lidia] Can't you write to him?
Tell him you're staying a little longer.
So we spend some time together.
I couldn't. Lidia.
- [Enrico] Lidia!
- [Lidia sighs in exasperation]
- We'll talk about it later. Don't go away.
- [Grazia] Mm-hmm. No.
[footsteps departing]
[music fades]
Lidia. these nice gentlemen
had my business card.
I take it this is your doing?
[Lidia] Mm-hmm.
- I'm Paride. from the Circus Laforêt.
- Hello.
Yesterday. one of our artists
was arrested and beaten.
- Her name is Lorena Guerri.
- [Lidia] Of course.
But please. make yourselves comfortable.
My brother will be very happy to help you.
Hm?
Last Sunday. during the matinée.
Miranda Laforêt performed on the trapeze.
without a safety net.
and fell from a height of nine metres.
At first. it seemed like an accident.
but then the coroner found
on the thigh of the victim
signs of frequent injections.
So it transpired that your client
regularly injected the victim
with analgesics.
- [knocking on door]
- [man] Come in.
Good morning. Your Honour.
Apologies for my tardiness.
Turin's topography is quite mysterious.
Have you met the new Royal Prosecutor?
- Giovanni Cantamessa. I'm honoured.
- Advocate Enrico Poët. The honour is mine.
[intriguing string music playing]
And tell me. to whom do we owe
the presence of this beautiful lady?
[exhales] This is Dr Lidia Poët.
my assistant in legal matters.
and my sister.
Did you hear that Mr Fourneau
was appointed Prosecutor General
of the Court of Assizes?
Yes. indeed. we heard.
He won't be missed.
thanks to Mr Cantamessa.
Ooh.
He was very thorough
in this specific case.
It was my duty. Your Honour.
I had the circus wagons searched.
and interrogated the witnesses
and collected their testimonies.
and. as the judge
has probably already told you.
I tracked down the syringe
and the vial used for the injection.
And I took the liberty of having
the substance in the vial analysed.
and. as you can see from the report.
the results came back. and it turned out
to be a soporific substance
capable of knocking out a horse.
Why did you rule out
the possibility of a mistake?
[intriguing music continues]
I don't quite get the question.
Counsellor.
[inhales sharply] We were wondering
why you immediately
thought of a premeditated murder.
and not of a mistake made in good faith.
Ah. of course. a mistake
is always possible. You're right.
Strange. though. that this mistake
was made by Mrs Lorena Guerri.
who is married to Mr Rubino Guerri.
who is this person here.
and who. as you can see.
appears in all the circus advertisements
together with the victim.
Clearly in… lascivious poses.
So. in your opinion.
the motive would be… jealousy?
Uh. well. as we know. Counsellor.
people only kill for two reasons.
If it's not for money. it's for love.
Miranda lost both her parents
when she was six.
She was like my sister.
My husband taught her the trapeze.
And you're telling me that I was jealous?
Oh. unfortunately.
the prosecutor is convinced
that there was something less spiritual
between your husband and Miranda.
And how exactly would he know?
He's from the South.
They see jealousy everywhere there.
Now. without wanting to generalise…
The problem is that you used this syringe
and this particular vial.
Yes. I gave her an injection
before the show. So what?
She suffered from back pain.
You can ask my husband.
He'll tell you that Miranda insisted.
She wanted to perform no matter what.
[Enrico] Are you absolutely sure
you didn't use the wrong medicine?
How could I get it wrong. sir?
The vial has a red label.
I've been using that one every day.
- Are you sure he's the best you've got?
- Excuse me. how dare…
Yes. he is. What he means is that maybe
someone who knew about these injections
could have simply replaced the painkiller
with the sleeping agent.
[sombre music playing]
Someone who wanted to kill Miranda?
Why?
No. Counsellor. [scoffs]
The point is they hate us
because we're Gypsies.
The prosecutor made himself
look good in the papers.
Well. I sincerely hope
that is not the case.
And if it is. they'll crawl in
on their knees and apologise to you.
I promise.
[sombre music continues]
[Teresa] It'll be just the three of us.
and Ms Marianna.
Unfortunately.
I haven't heard from my brother.
- [Albertina] Sorry to hear that. ma'am.
- [Teresa] Well. it doesn't matter.
- Forgive me. dear.
- [Grazia gasps]
I didn't quite understand how long
you plan to stay here with us after all.
[Grazia] Oh. we'll leave…
- We'll be leaving…
- Oh. perfect.
Because my daughter is arriving
on Good Friday. and she'll need the room.
[Grazia] Mm-hmm.
[exhales shakily]
[pensive music playing]
- [knocking on door]
- [Fourneau] Come in.
[Fourneau] Ms Poët.
I'm surprised to see you.
Excuse me. I was looking
for the Prosecutor General
of the Court of Assizes.
Then you'll have to come back in two weeks
when the appointment will be official.
because I'm only here
to arrange his books for him.
[wistful music playing softly]
[Lidia chuckles]
Getting a bit anxious?
Could be worse.
Yes. At most.
I'll miss the field investigations a bit.
But the real problem is that wearing
a gown would be utterly ridiculous.
- [chuckles]
- [Fourneau] Yes.
Would it embarrass you
if I came to your first hearing?
No.
No. I mean. it wouldn't be embarrassing.
But I think that…
it's better if you don't.
In order not to give rise to. uh… gossip.
That's all.
Maybe it's best you get
the keys to the door. then.
At your order.
How's your friend?
What you said about her in your lecture
made me want to meet her.
I'll introduce you.
She… she should stay a few more days.
Just long enough to solve some. uh.
financial issues she has. Uh…
- Can I do something?
- No.
No.
[exhales] This arrived yesterday.
[poignant music playing]
The doctor who operated on me sent it.
[clicks tongue] And it's very thin.
so clearly it's not a book.
If it's not a book.
I thought it might be a letter.
- But if a doctor sends you a letter…
- Want me to open it?
Please. Yes.
[sombre music playing]
[paper rustling]
What does it say?
Is it serious?
Lidia.
You're in the history of medicine.
- [Fourneau chuckles softly]
- Look.
[emotional music playing]
- Look at my brain. mm?
- [Lidia] Mm.
[chuckles softly] "Fact is.
symptoms are no longer present here".
[chuckles softly]
You're alive.
You're well.
One could say handsome.
I would never have had the operation
without you.
Never.
You're so romantic.
My young Werther.
[knocking on door]
THANKS FOR EVERYTHING
I COULDN'T WAIT FOR YOU - GRAZIA
[Enrico] Grazia left this morning.
I wasn't home.
but I'm sure Teresa did
everything she could to stop her.
What do you mean she left? Why?
Anyway. it is fortunate.
because we have another visitor.
- No. no. no.
- No. no. a nice visitor. I assure you.
A wonderful. special surprise.
A person who…
who never shows their face in Rome.
but who decided to come visit us at home.
[gentle music playing]
[Lidia] Jacopo.
[Jacopo] Lidia.
- [Lidia] Welcome back.
- Thank you.
Congratulations. You never wrote to me.
- Oh. but I do write for my newspaper.
- [Lidia] Ah.
Don't you get Il Martello in Turin?
We don't read that here.
[Jacopo laughing]
[Lidia] You are Consuelo…
Consuelo Vega del Carmen.
Nice to meet you. Lidia.
Oh. pleasure.
[Jacopo] We met
at the Opera House in Rome.
I was in the audience. and she simply
couldn't resist my alluring magnetism.
Your magnetism.
- That one. yes.
- It's all true.
This treacherous man made me
lose any sense of reality.
[Lidia laughs uncomfortably]
La traviata is playing tomorrow
at the Regio. and she'll be Violetta.
That's why we took the liberty
to come unannounced.
That is quite all right.
And Consuelo.
Jacopo must consider himself very lucky.
[Consuelo] Hm. I know.
[Consuelo and Teresa tittering]
Forgive me.
I just got back. and I have to…
go to my room. I'll see you later.
[Teresa] I hope you'll stay for dinner.
- [Consuelo] Oh. yes!
- [Jacopo] No. no. no.
But we could at least spend
Easter together. right?
Teresa. Easter's a long way off.
We'll think about it later.
[uneasy music playing]
[coroner] Death was immediate.
Fracture of the occipital plate.
As you can see. though.
there are some bruises here.
They're from a series of injections.
Would you be able to tell us if the victim
had actually taken any sleeping agents?
[coroner] Well. it's hard to say.
but the syringe we found
contained some traces.
Excuse me. What is this?
This is a fairly recent wound.
Ten days. maybe.
But it's very superficial.
It can't have caused the fall.
[mysterious music playing]
[Enrico] What are you thinking?
Did you ever make a blood oath
when you were a child?
[Enrico] No.
Well. you swear to be friends forever
and to always tell each other the truth.
- I had normal friends. Lidia.
- No. you didn't have any friends. Enrico.
I'm sorry.
- Giorgio was my friend.
- He was the gardener. He was 55.
We don't have to go over this again.
[camel grunting. snorting]
[Lidia] Mm.
Mm.
[suspenseful music playing]
What's your name?
Susanna.
I'm sorry. I really can't.
I swore to Miranda that I wouldn't
talk to anyone about her stuff.
[Enrico] Susanna. a person is in prison.
and it is your duty
to help us set the record straight.
No. we certainly were not
having an affair.
I don't know why
Susanna told you something like that.
The prosecutor is convinced
that this is your wife's motive.
So. if something happened.
anything you can think of.
then we need to know.
[intriguing string music playing]
[Lidia] I understand. you know?
I know how important
an oath to a friend is.
We just want to rule out the possibility
that Miranda and Rubino
were not having a romantic relationship.
We can't rule it out?
I don't know.
maybe Miranda made it up. right?
I cared about her. I really did.
But she was a girl that made things up.
and she was always full of secrets.
She was strange.
Strange how?
Last week when I saw her.
she was sitting in front
of that big fancy hotel. the Regio.
I tried to avoid her.
I didn't want her to get the impression
that I was following her or anything.
But it was strange.
Yes. but why?
Because. well. it looked like
she was waiting for someone.
[Enrico] Honestly.
I don't trust either of them.
But it's not a matter of trust. Enrico.
We just have to go to the Regio
and ask if anyone saw Miranda.
Even if they saw her.
what does that have to do
with Lorena being jealous?
It has nothing to do with it.
but if Miranda went there
and didn't tell her best friend.
it means there was something
she was ashamed of.
or that could get her into trouble.
- What's going on?
- [Lidia] Go. I'll be right there.
[sombre music playing]
I can explain.
- It seems a lifetime.
- [Lidia] Mm. I noticed.
[Grazia] I'm sorry. Lidia.
I just want to understand
why you didn't wait for me to get back.
- [Grazia] I'm sorry. I couldn't wait.
- Why not?
There's no debt. I lied to you.
I was trying to run away from my husband.
I'd found someone
who would get me across the border.
but when I tried to give him the necklace.
he wouldn't accept it.
Why didn't you just say so? Why?
Because I was ashamed.
Grazia. you don't have to be ashamed.
Huh? It's me.
[voice breaking] I abhor him. Lidia.
He's controlling.
He tells me what to wear.
He doesn't let me see anyone.
One time. I told him he'd been too harsh
with how he dealt with Mila…
He beat me within an inch of my life.
And then he kept me at home for a month.
telling everyone I was sick.
- I cannot go back home to that.
- No. Of course not.
Have you thought about separating?
- [scoffs] Is that a thing?
- It is.
Of course. you both need to agree.
- That's not something he'd agree to.
- Well. then. we'll take him to court.
[Grazia sighs heavily]
No more tears.
No.
Listen here.
[inhales] Just think about me. Mm?
About the two of us.
About the time when we lived together
in that awful house. [laughs]
Completely broke.
And how we stole coal
in order to keep ourselves warm.
[Grazia sniffles]
We're still here. aren't we?
- And I think we deserve a strong drink.
- [Grazia chuckles softly]
- Very strong drink.
- [Lidia laughs]
Come… Come on.
[Grazia chuckles]
[hopeful music playing]
[Lidia] So…
pick one.
- [Grazia] I have to change my clothes?
- To drink where we're going. yes.
I'll be wearing a dress of Lidia Poët?
[both laughing]
[bell dings]
So. indulge me for five minutes.
then we'll go to the bar.
- That'll make them think you're a floozie.
- Yes. that's the idea.
You see.
everyone likes a floozie. you know?
- No…
- Yes. indeed. really…
I'm sorry. but you can't stay here.
- We just wanted to have a quiet drink.
- No.
[humorous string music playing]
Well. right. um. may I at least ask
if you've ever seen this lady?
She asked you a question.
What is the matter?
- The matter's your profession.
- Ah.
Well. apparently.
not everyone likes floozies.
Look. my friend here
is the Electorate Poët's sister.
- She's all over the newspapers.
- Lidia Poët.
Yes. and I'm Prince Vittorio Emanuele.
and I'm in…
Obviously. you don't read any newspapers.
It's the truth.
- Security!
- Oh. wait…
- Security?
- No need to call security.
I can't believe it! Lidia Poët!
Join our friends. We are all at the bar
with the rest of them.
- They're with me. thank you.
- It was an honour. Your Highness.
If you don't mind…
Gentlemen. as destiny would have it.
look who I found… Lidia Poët!
- [people applauding]
- Ah.
- Interesting.
- Bonjour.
[Lidia] Thank you.
Putain. putain. putain!
Looks like Jacopo
and the prosecutor are here.
- Ah. I'll get you a drink.
- Thank you.
Jacopo.
Lidia.
- Prosecutor.
- Ms Poët.
Ladies and gentlemen. please be quiet!
- [man shushing] Quiet. Quiet.
- [Consuelo] Señores. let's play a game.
A fun little drinking game.
[all cheering and applauding]
- Jacopo. explain the rules. please.
- Ah. yes. yes. yes.
Uh. help me if I forget something.
The basic rules are. uh.
the person taking their turn
must reveal an experience
that they have never had before. right?
- To the room.
- [Jacopo] To the room. yes. out loud.
And if any of the other players
have indeed experienced it.
they must drink a glass of cognac!
[all laughing and applauding]
Can we lie?
Well. it's not the point of the game.
but. eh… Who are we to judge. hey?
[all laugh]
[Consuelo] It's my turn!
- The glass. Okay.
- Thank you.
[Consuelo] So. never have I…
fallen in love before.
[all tittering]
Consuelo… this is how you tell me?
[Consuelo] I'm only with you
because you're handsome. my love.
[all laughing]
Uh. madam. you're married.
but you don't drink. hm?
Poor husband. [chuckles]
[chuckles softly]
Never met a woman
who cited love as a reason to marry.
My sister! My sister.
Who. by the way.
is an incredible character. [laughing]
Your turn. Grazia.
[Grazia] My turn?
Never have I…
been made to wear a corset
as tight as the one
Lidia squeezed me into this evening.
[all laughing]
You no shame? You just want to get drunk?
What do you know about
what I did in Paris. my sweet love?
- My turn.
- [Consuelo] Yes. go on.
[pensive music playing]
Well. then…
Never have I…
had the pleasure
of meeting a trapeze artist.
[compelling choral music playing]
[people murmuring]
But I have. More than one. actually.
Mr Calvart
is a great French circus impresario.
After this glass. I definitely
won't be able to stand up any more.
[all laughing]
- [man] A toast to the impresario!
- May I have a word in private with you?
Yes. with pleasure. yes.
[pensive music playing]
She wanted to join my company.
Her family circus wasn't enough for her.
She wanted… a bigger audience.
to travel the world and… [chuckles]
…become famous.
So I promised I'd come
and see her at the Sunday show.
The one where she had the accident.
[Calvart] Yes. That one.
But I couldn't make it.
I found out about the accident
from the newspaper.
I'm sorry. madam.
I'm afraid that's all the help
I can give you.
That's all right.
You've helped so much already.
- Merci.
- Je vous en prie.
[pensive music fades]
Ms Poët.
I'm happy to see you here.
Me too.
And I have a surprise for you.
I was thinking. if being seen together
in Turin is a problem.
and it is…
Mm-hmm.
…we could go somewhere else.
[Lidia laughs softly]
TURIN CENTRAL STATION - VIENNA
Vienna.
[Fourneau] I got them this morning. yes.
Imagine. five days. you and me.
in a place where nobody knows.
Ooh…
[Fourneau] What do you say?
That sounds wonderful.
- [Fourneau chuckles]
- Very well.
Just enough time to sort out
the situation with Grazia.
Yes.
[Fourneau] Did you find
the money to help her?
No.
Luckily. I'd say. because she needed it
to run away from her husband and…
[inhales] …to disappear permanently.
I'm suggesting legal separation
to see if that may help.
[Grazia laughing. chatting]
[Fourneau] What did he do to her?
He beat her.
And…
she told me that
he almost killed her once.
[sombre music playing]
It's just that in court.
what she says won't be enough.
[man. Grazia speaking indistinctly]
[Grazia laughing]
I know.
- [Grazia laughs. yelps]
- Careful. careful.
So… so sorry. [laughing]
- [Grazia retching]
- Good. that's it.
- Well done. well done. That's it.
- [Grazia moaning. coughing]
- [groans]
- [both laughing]
I told you I didn't have
the stamina for it these days.
- Yes. I can see that.
- [Grazia laughing] Oh…
I'm so sorry.
- Don't you worry.
- No. really. I'm sorry.
I nearly did something disastrous.
[exhales heavily]
And running away is an act of desperation.
[sombre music playing]
I can't run away my whole life.
It wouldn't be fair to Mila.
Nor to myself.
Let's get out of here.
Sure.
Those feathers!
[both laughing]
[Enrico] "Article 150".
"Separation may be requested
on the grounds of excesses. abuse.
threats. and serious affronts".
[book closes]
Let us be clear.
Domestic violence
is not a crime in our legal system.
and I strongly doubt that a court
would rely on your word alone.
In my opinion.
it would be better to follow Article 158.
"Consensual separation".
- [Lidia] Yes.
- [Grazia] Would my daughter stay with me?
Um… If your husband agrees. then yes.
That's not something he'd do.
And. if possible. at this time.
try to maintain good relations.
We'll try to have a word with him.
We'll make him understand
it's in his best interest to give in.
because we're in a position
to take him to court.
- But I don't want to go back there.
- [Lidia] In fact. you're staying here.
For as long as you want to.
[laughs softly] Right?
Certainly.
I don't know how to thank you.
You've been so kind.
Seriously.
Thank you.
Now I'll go and see if Mila
is up to more mischief. [chuckles]
[Enrico sighs]
Let's go.
- Put your jacket on.
- Why?
Miranda wanted to run away
from her family.
She wanted to join Calvart's circus.
That's why she wanted to perform
at any cost that night.
Because it was the only chance
she had to convince him.
[Enrico] And maybe someone
wanted to stop her.
Do you know who that might be?
I can only think of Paride.
He's Miranda's grandfather.
He would never allow her to leave.
Of course.
There's no way he would've switched vials.
No. indeed.
And yet… Well. why not? It adds up.
Because it doesn't add up. Enrico.
If Paride had known that his granddaughter
had taken a sedative.
he would never have let her
get on the trapeze like that. No!
- No.
- [Lidia] No. exactly.
If he wanted to.
he could have cancelled Miranda's act.
He didn't need to sabotage it.
No. it must have been someone
with less power.
less authority. and who couldn't
bear the thought of living without her.
It was someone who knew.
but couldn't say a word to anyone.
Because they had taken a blood oath.
[Paride yelling] Susanna!
Susanna!
[suspenseful music playing]
Enrico!
[music stops abruptly]
- Susanna!
- Go away!
- Susanna. come down.
- If you come up. I'll jump.
- I'll stay here.
- [Susanna] I'll jump!
I'm staying down here.
- Susanna!
- Wait. wait. wait…
- [Susanna] I'll jump. I don't care!
- No one's coming up! No one's coming up.
[panting] Susanna. I know…
that you didn't want to kill Miranda.
You don't know anything!
Trust me. I know.
I understand what you're going through.
I made a pact in blood
with my best friend.
No secrets. right?
And then she got pregnant.
she got married.
and to this day. I still regret
all the thoughts that I had.
Because I didn't want her to get married.
I didn't want her to become a mother.
That way. I wouldn't have been left alone.
You didn't know Miranda wanted
to perform without a safety net.
You just didn't want Calvart to see her.
Because you were afraid
of losing her. right?
["Safe with Me" by Soap&Skin playing]
[breathes deeply]
[Lidia] Most of the time.
people kill out of hatred.
but in the case of
the young trapeze artist Miranda Laforêt.
there is only one truth.
No one wanted to kill.
A mistake was made. yes.
But at the root of the mistake
was the noblest feeling
that human beings are capable of.
Friendship.
[all cheering]
♪ It's hard to find it ♪
♪ When you're into it ♪
[Lidia] And true friendship lasts forever.
♪ The sun. replace it… ♪
[Lidia] But sometimes.
friendship is so intense
that it becomes dangerous.
and the fear of losing a friend
can push
the most delicate and sensitive person
to display horrible selfishness.
Susanna Garenne did not want to kill.
On the contrary.
she would have wanted her friend
to live with her forever.
♪ No love can be… ♪
[Lidia] That was her goal. Not death.
♪ No love can be ♪
♪ Safe with me… ♪
[Lidia] And therefore.
the charge of voluntary homicide
is absolutely unjust
and does not correspond to the real facts.
Spending Easter with my family.
isn't that… mmm…
a bit too much?
Why not just the two of us?
We could arrange to have brought up
some roasted lamb. champagne…
[Consuelo] My love.
if there is a problem with Lidia.
you can just tell me.
Do you think…
she's still burning with love?
No. "burning with love"
is an exaggeration. um… [inhales]
You decide. Jacopo.
I don't want her to suffer because of me.
But it's been six months.
Maybe it's time to. you know…
make peace and move on. right?
[Jacopo laughs]
Come on. don't laugh.
I know I sound funny.
- No! No. no. no.
- [Consuelo] What?
My love. what you're saying isn't funny.
it's old-fashioned.
Your words are suave.
- [Consuelo] Mm?
- My love. it's pure poetry.
Yes.
Come here.
- [Consuelo giggling]
- Come sit right here.
[Consuelo singing "La traviata"
in Italian]
She's brilliant.
And very. very nice.
- And beautiful.
- [Lidia] Yes.
[continues singing "La traviata"]
But she still doesn't know me well enough.
Sooner or later. she'll realise
she's made a mistake. Right?
- Yes. afraid so.
- Yes.
[both laugh]
And what about you and your prosecutor?
[scoffs] What prosecutor?
It's good.
I'm very happy.
Splendid.
I am too.
Good.
The angels in heaven could not match
the pure harmony of your voice.
Thank you.
- [Enrico and Jacopo] Cheers!
- [Teresa] Congratulations.
Jacopo told me
that your daughter likes music too.
- Oh yes.
- I'd like to meet her some day.
[chuckles awkwardly]
Unfortunately. she gave up.
Now she attends
the École Supérieure in Paris.
[gasps] Oh. how wonderful!
Paris is amazing in the springtime.
Maybe. but she could have found
a week for her family.
I know young people don't care
much about traditions. but…
Easter has a spiritual meaning that is…
muy profundo. [chuckles]
[Lidia] He's a polyglot.
Spanish. French. I mean. he's…
[Albertina] Excuse me!
- Yes?
- There's someone asking for you.
Honestly. this is quite inappropriate.
We just sat down at the table.
[man] You're right. ma'am.
- In fact. I apologise to everyone.
- Daddy!
[man] Hi. princess.
Do you know how much
I missed you. darling?
I would not have been this inappropriate
if this was not a matter of urgency.
[uneasy music playing]
Please. Captain.
if you would like to join
our frugal lunch.
- [Lidia] Mm-mm.
- [man] No. don't bother. sir.
If I may. I'd like to speak
to my wife for a minute. In private.
No. if you have something to say. say it…
No. Lidia. It's fine.
Sweetie. go and sit next to Jacopo.
Let's go.
[Teresa chuckles uncomfortably]
Your father looks very handsome
in full dress uniform.
[Enrico] You know who called before lunch
to wish me a happy Easter. Lidia?
[Lidia] Hm?
- [Enrico] Zanardelli.
- [Lidia] Mm.
[Enrico] The scandalmongers
paint him as a vulgar simpleton.
but he's actually a delightful person.
He hasn't expressed
a clear opinion on our law yet.
but he promised me
that when he becomes Minister.
he'll offer me a very important position.
He already buried Depretis.
[Grazia screams]
[ominous music playing]
[Lidia] Grazia!
No. stay. sweetheart.
Stay right here. I'll be back.
[Grazia panting]
He just tried to kill me.
["Misfit" by RIIVAL playing]
♪ I'm a misfit. I'm a misfit ♪
♪ Yeah. I'm different
Yeah. I'm different ♪
♪ You don't wanna miss this ♪
♪ You're gonna wanna witness. whoa! ♪
♪ Whoa! ♪
♪ You're gonna miss me when I'm gone ♪
♪ But you can't have all the fun ♪
♪ Gotta give everyone a taste ♪
♪ Can't let my greatness go to waste ♪
♪ So I'm flying state to state ♪
♪ And they patiently await ♪
♪ Everybody needs something to believe ♪
♪ And that something might be me ♪
♪ I'm a misfit ♪
♪ Yeah. I'm different ♪
♪ You don't wanna miss this ♪
♪ You're gonna wanna witness. whoa! ♪
♪ I'm a misfit ♪
[closing theme music playing]
[music fades]
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org